All right.
In the last section, we have completed the search for other options.
In this section, we're going to fetch the data from the Google Search API and show the title inside
the image search page or the web search page.
So the things we need to do is to first go back to our website, to our Visual Studio code, and we
go.
Let me close this.
I open the Explorer section.
We go to Web.
First, we start with the web, and then we can just modify it and create the image as well.
So we go to Web and page the G6, and we need to complete this one.
This page is server side, and next year, 13 provides a different way to fetch data in a server side.
So I'm going to show you how to do it in next 12 was different.
We need we use the gate server side props function, but here we don't need to have any extra functions
to fetch data from an API.
So the things we do here, here are the top.
So first thing first, we need to change this function to asynchronous.
So this is the because we want to use some a wait here and in React, this one doesn't work.
You cannot change this function to asynchronous, but in next year's 13 you just change this font to
asynchronous and this component works fine for the server side and you can easily fetch any data using
a weight.
So we need to create a constant and we call it response, for example.
And this is going to await for a function.
And we fetch data from a new URL.
But which URL we fetch, we need to go and check inside the Google.
So we need to first activate the Google search API.
So we need to go to Google and we search for.
Developers Google.
Here as we go to a website called Developers dot Google.com.
And you need to sign in with your proper account.
So I'm going to sign in with my other Gmail.
And here.
We need to search for the API we would like to use.
As you can see, the Google has many products.
Android, Google Cloud, Firebase, Flutter, and etc. So we can click here to view all the developer's
product and.
Here.
We can search for our product.
We want to search.
We create a search engine.
They have plenty of things, but the 1ii want to use is programmer search engine.
Once you get here, you click on explore.
And here explains how they can use that.
And the things you need to do is just click here on create a search engine.
So you can just check here.
You you need to.
What sort of things do you need?
But the things that is important for us is JSON API section on the left section.
And we want to use using rest.
So we click on using rest.
Now, on the right side, as you can see, we can create a request and search for the parameters we
have.
But if you want to have a search query, we can use something, a get request from, for example, this
URL which is Google API dot com custom search forward slash v one and then you need to have your API
key here.
Then you have your.
Uh, context key.
You need to add here.
And finally, you need to have some query.
So a queue for query, for example, this one is searching for lectures.
So we need to I want to copy this URL and put it inside our fetch.
But I want to use it back tick because I want to make the query and API key.
So I'm going to paste this on.
And also, you can see we are getting a very nice suggestion from a tap and sorry, the GitHub copilot.
I'm going to paste this one anyway.
So we need to have our API key and context key.
So we want to hide it from the people.
Inside the GitHub that will watch our website.
So we're going to create a variable here using dollar sign and a set of curly braces and just create
a process.
That envy.
I'm just going to call this one.
For example, API underline key or you can call it anything like Google API key or whatever you want
to call it.
And then we go to dot, EMV, dot local.
We need to have the same name, which is API key.
This is not public because this is in the server side.
So we can we don't need to use next public.
So we just say API key equal.
And then we need to get our API key from Google.
So we need to go a little bit up.
Here.
They said API key.
Use the key query parameters to identify your application.
So we need to click on identify your application, and here we can click on Get a key.
This is going to ask us which projects you want to get the key.
You can choose your previous projects or you can just create a new projects.
So I can just create a new project here.
I'm going to call this one.
You cannot use the word Google.
This is this is against the Google's policy.
You're going to get an error later.
So never use the word Google so you can use any other words like go, for example, I just say go next.
13.
So be careful that some of my students here use Google and send me their error.
So go next year 13.
And you just press next and wait for them to create and enable your custom search API.
And they're going to give you the your API key in a short time.
So now we are all set.
We can just click here to show the key.
So I'm going to copy this one.
And we go back here and paste it inside our environmental variable.
The next things we need to do is to create the context key.
So I'm going to create another variable here.
This is coming until this query.
You need to change it and to delete.
And then you can just write down here a process.
Dot, e and v.
Dot.
You just call this one context.
This should be uppercase and context underlined key.
So I'm going to copy this inside the environmental value bull.
I'm going to equal this one and we need to get that one too.
So I'm going to press down.
We come back one more time in the previous page where we got the click on the API key.
Now we need to go to programmer programmable search engine ID, which is called C X or Context API.
So we need to click on the control panel.
We need to.
Create our desired search engine.
So as you can see, before I made another one.
Now you can just click on ADD, Create a new one.
I'm going to call this one, for example.
Go dash next.
JZ 13.
Why do you want to search?
For example, search a specific site or page.
Or search the entire web.
You can just, uh.
I think you can choose the entire web.
I want to search image as well.
Safe search.
It's okay.
I don't need it.
So I'm going to click here and I'm not a robot and just create it.
So now we can just get our contact ski.
As you can see here, you can just copy this Contacts key.
And then this is the I want to show you.
You just need these numbers after six.
So when you copy this one, you come back to Visual Studio Code and paste it here.
So now as we have changed the environmental variable, I'm going to stop the server.
I'm going to use NPM run dev to start the server again.
So let's close the environmental variable file and now we go back to here.
We already got it.
This search query.
Just leave it.
For now, lectures.
I want to just show you the results first.
First thing first, we need to convert this one to.
JSON file.
So we got the response here.
We can create another file, another constant called, for example, data, which is going to wait and
convert this one to a JSON.
Then we can just get the data.
Or as we call it, the results.
And the result is going to be equal to data that items.
That is a result.
And also this is the, for example, ten results.
But you can get some more data from here.
That data.
So let me console.log data I'm going to show you first.
So let's test this one.
We go to our website.
We go to all because we use the web already.
We just use the web.
Now, let's see.
Okay.
We got the we should get the result in the server side.
Because this is a server.
So you need to see your console log inside the terminal.
As you can see, we got the result.
And.
This is the result for the World Lectures, as you can see.
This is the information of the results.
For example, search time.
We got the formatted search, total number of search.
And in the items in the items, we get all the results, which includes ten results.
For example, the title, the first one is a lecture Wikipedia.
This is the URL to link, display link and many more things that we can see here.
The things I want to show you here.
We want to show just the title inside the.
A browser.
So we got this result.
Now, inside this return, let me just create an empty fragment.
I'm done.
I'm going to create, for example, I just say if the results.
Exist.
Then I want to map through the results, which is includes the items, get each result, and then I
want to just show it.
Inside an Etch One tag, for example.
I just create an H one tag and then the things I want to show is I ten.
Oh, sorry.
The result.
Dot title.
I want to just see the title of the search.
Let's be sure that we don't make a mistake.
We need to close this.
Here.
I think it's fine.
Now, let's come back and check.
For example, if we now refresh the page, we should see the title here.
Okay, Now we got the title for the word lecture.
All right.
So we think but we don't get the result.
For example, for this.
Hello.
So we need to have a mechanism to get the search term and then only show the search term.
It's very simple inside the.
Next.
She is 13.
In server side, we can just get the search programs directly here so we need to get this search params
here and this search params is going to include all the queries.
For example, here we can change this lecture to a dynamic one and here we just say search params.
For example, if you want to get this a search term.
So we just say search term.
So we get the search term and we search for that one instead.
So I'm going to show you now, for example, we have hello, we get the hello and if you want to give,
for example, I search the word nice, we get the result for the nice, as you can see here.
So it's very simple and straightforward.
So I think that's it for this section.
That's enough.
In the next section, we're going to customize this.
And we're going to get the result.
In a way.
A first thing first, I want to handle the errors.
So in this search, it's very important and
in the next section.
So before anything else, we want to handle the errors using the new feature of next year's 30.
But for now, we just add this one to GitHub using contour shift G.
We're going to press class to add this one, and then we just create.
A message for that one, which is going to be fetch.
Data from.
Google search.
API.
And show the titles.
Okay.
So I'm going to click on here and commit and push.
So let's go back to our website, to our GitHub repository, and here we click on Google Clone next
year 13.
And here we can see that we have now 12 commits.
So here we can see the last comment is first, fetch data from Google API, search API and show.
The titles.
I have to make a sure.
That's fine.
So now we have modified this page.
Page that gsx.
Let me review how this one works.
As you can see inside the next yes, 13, we create a asynchronous function component, which is going
to fetch data easily inside the server side.
Based on the search programs that we have, for example, the search term, any search term we have,
we're going to fetch the data.
And, uh.
This.
We need to have the environment.
Sorry, API key and the context key.
I have shown you how to get it.
You need to go to the developers that google.com and create a new programmer search API and you get
your API key and context key by creating a new one.
And once we've done that, we're going to convert this one to JSON file and we're going to map through
it and show the title.
The other things I didn't mention.
There are plenty of fetching the methods for next year's 13 if you search for better.
Dot.
Next JSON or G I want to show you.
There are plenty of ways to.
Fetch data.
The one we use that we we're going to cache the data.
So when the when you go here and you go to data fishing for the fishing and there are plenty of ways
we have used the simple one, we just switch the data.
But you can use the different ways.
For example, you can cash, cash the data or you can revalidate the data every 60 seconds, for example.
And the.
For example, you you get the data, but in the search engine, you want to always get the fresh data.
So we're not going to use the revalidate.
We always have to get the fresh data.
So.
We can just use force cash or only cash, or we can just say no cash to always get the new data.
But.
The things we why we always get the new data.
If you look at the.
The data we got.
I want to show you why we always get the new data.
We always get the this search information differently because the search time, the total result is
always different when you search.
So we cannot actually cache this result.
So each time it's different results and.
And Nick just cannot cash it.
So that's why I didn't use any revalidation or anything here.
So we just simply could just fetch it.
But if you fetching from an API, that doesn't change too much, for example, if you're fetching from
a movie API.
You can simply revalidate that one, for example, every few hours.
So you're going to save a lot of API requests by doing that.
So.
So if you want more information I have just created in other projects for next year for the IMDB clone.
So I have used the revalidate there, so you can use that one.
But for the search engine we just normally fetch data.
Okay, so that was it for fetching data and show it inside the browser.
Just a title.
In the next section we're going to handle the errors, which is very important in any applications.
And next year 13 provides us a very simple method to do that.
So see you in the next section.